graduation.md, before:

# Graduation

## The hard requirements for a student to graduate:

#### Taken from the presentation at the start of class

> What does it take to graduate from a course?

> "Clear eyes, full hearts, can't lose."

> Though specific assignments will differ from course to course, there are two main requirements to be considered for graduation:
> - Complete and submit 80% of all homework assignments, and
> - Complete and submit each of the four course projects

#### Our slightly-revised version:

- Complete at least 80% of assigned homework.
- Earn no more than one "Does not meet expectations" on Project 4.

If all of these requirements are met the student will graduate.

If any of these requirements are not met the student will not be allowed to graduate.

## Going forward, keep in mind:

Complete homework and projects in good faith. **Code that has been copied** should be annotated as such, either in a readme, in comments, or in direct communication to an instructor. At least let us know why this was such a struggle.

Perhaps most importantly, ask for help. Make *that* your challenge for yourself, even more-so than coding perfectly. Learning to ask for help is much more valuable in the long-run than learning anything else.

#### When asking for help:

- Post to group Slack. This is very valuable for everyone. We as instructors are trying to better hold ourselves accountable on redirecting questions appropriate for the group to the group Slack. 
- Include a relevant code snippet.
- **Include your error message(s).**

## What does it mean for a student to graduate?

- They have the highest career-placement priority with Outcomes.
- They are welcome to present at the Meet and Hire.
- Perhaps most importantly, they have GA's blessing to inform potential employers (and anyone else) that they are graduates.

#### What does it mean for a student to *not* graduate?

- They **are still welcome** to attend class and to attend GA events.
- They **won't be treated any differently** by instructors in the context of the classroom.
- They have low career-placement priority with Outcomes.
- They may not present at the Meet and Hire.
- If someone contacts GA to confirm whether they graduated, GA will have to say "no."

Commit message:

add links to check grade

graduation.md, after:

# Graduation

## The hard requirements for a student to graduate:

#### Taken from the presentation at the start of class

> What does it take to graduate from a course?

> "Clear eyes, full hearts, can't lose."

> Though specific assignments will differ from course to course, there are two main requirements to be considered for graduation:
> - Complete and submit 80% of all homework assignments, [(check your grade here)](https://wdidc5-hw.herokuapp.com/) and
> - Complete and submit each of the four course projects

#### Our slightly-revised version:

- Complete at least 80% of assigned homework. [check your grade here](https://wdidc5-hw.herokuapp.com/)
- Earn no more than one "Does not meet expectations" on Project 4.

If all of these requirements are met the student will graduate.

If any of these requirements are not met the student will not be allowed to graduate.

## Going forward, keep in mind:

Complete homework and projects in good faith. **Code that has been copied** should be annotated as such, either in a readme, in comments, or in direct communication to an instructor. At least let us know why this was such a struggle.

Perhaps most importantly, ask for help. Make *that* your challenge for yourself, even more-so than coding perfectly. Learning to ask for help is much more valuable in the long-run than learning anything else.

#### When asking for help:

- Post to group Slack. This is very valuable for everyone. We as instructors are trying to better hold ourselves accountable on redirecting questions appropriate for the group to the group Slack. 
- Include a relevant code snippet.
- **Include your error message(s).**

## What does it mean for a student to graduate?

- They have the highest career-placement priority with Outcomes.
- They are welcome to present at the Meet and Hire.
- Perhaps most importantly, they have GA's blessing to inform potential employers (and anyone else) that they are graduates.

#### What does it mean for a student to *not* graduate?

- They **are still welcome** to attend class and to attend GA events.
- They **won't be treated any differently** by instructors in the context of the classroom.
- They have low career-placement priority with Outcomes.
- They may not present at the Meet and Hire.
- If someone contacts GA to confirm whether they graduated, GA will have to say "no."
