w07/readme.md, before:

# Week 7

## Learning Objectives

### Intro to Javascript

**Basics**
- Define the roles in which JavaScript is used
- Compare and contrast Ruby and JavaScript as programming languages
- Describe the difference between variables created with and without `var`
- List the common data types in Javascript
- Explain what a "primitive" data type is
- Create an array and access / modify the items in it

**Control Flow**
- Explain the difference between `==` and `===`.
- Use `if` statements to control flow in a program
- Use `for` and `while` loops

- Follow a JavaScript style guide and use the appropriate syntax.

### Functions and Objects

**Objects**
- Describe what a JS object is and how it compares to a Ruby hash
- Set and retrive properties and methods on JS Objects
  - using dot syntax
  - using dynamic (bracket) syntax
- Explain the meaning of `this` in JS

** Functions**
- Define what a function is in Javascript and how it compares to a Ruby method
- Describe how function arguments and return values are different from Ruby
- Differentiate between function declarations and expressions
- Define `hoisting`
- Define a closure in the context of programming


### The DOM

- Explain what the DOM is and how it is structured.
- Distinguish between an element and a node.
- Select and target DOM elements using a query selector.
- Change the attributes or content of a DOM element.
- Add and remove elements from the DOM.
- Attach an event listener to a DOM element.
- Use a callback function in order to attach behavior to events.

### Scope and Context

### Callbacks and Promises

- Compare and contrast Ruby methods to Javascript functions.
- Explain the difference between referencing and invoking a function.
- Explain the concept of a 'callback' and how we can pass functions as arguments to other functions.
- Explain what a promise is and how it differs from a callback.
- Explain the difference between synchronous and asynchronous execution.
- Explain the concept of events and event driven programming.

### jQuery

- Explain when to use "vanilla" Javascript vs jQuery.
- Import Javascript libraries.
- Explain what a CDN is.
- Use jQuery to create, modify, and add responsiveness to nodes.

Commit message:

js: add LO’s for Scope & Context
From
https://github.com/ga-students/wdidc4-instructors/edit/master/w07/d03/afternoon_scope-context/readme.md

w07/readme.md, after:

# Week 7

## Learning Objectives

### Intro to Javascript

**Basics**
- Define the roles in which JavaScript is used
- Compare and contrast Ruby and JavaScript as programming languages
- Describe the difference between variables created with and without `var`
- List the common data types in Javascript
- Explain what a "primitive" data type is
- Create an array and access / modify the items in it

**Control Flow**
- Explain the difference between `==` and `===`.
- Use `if` statements to control flow in a program
- Use `for` and `while` loops

- Follow a JavaScript style guide and use the appropriate syntax.

### Functions and Objects

**Objects**
- Describe what a JS object is and how it compares to a Ruby hash
- Set and retrive properties and methods on JS Objects
  - using dot syntax
  - using dynamic (bracket) syntax
- Explain the meaning of `this` in JS

** Functions**
- Define what a function is in Javascript and how it compares to a Ruby method
- Describe how function arguments and return values are different from Ruby
- Differentiate between function declarations and expressions
- Define `hoisting`
- Define a closure in the context of programming


### The DOM

- Explain what the DOM is and how it is structured.
- Distinguish between an element and a node.
- Select and target DOM elements using a query selector.
- Change the attributes or content of a DOM element.
- Add and remove elements from the DOM.
- Attach an event listener to a DOM element.
- Use a callback function in order to attach behavior to events.

### Scope and Context

- Define "variable scope" in the context of a program.
- Explain what global scope is
- List some problems associated with global scope.
- Explain variable scoping rules in Javascript
- Describe what a closure is and how it relates to scope.
- Explain function context, and how it relates to the `this` keyword.
- Explain what the default context of Javascript executing in the browser is.

### Callbacks and Promises

- Compare and contrast Ruby methods to Javascript functions.
- Explain the difference between referencing and invoking a function.
- Explain the concept of a 'callback' and how we can pass functions as arguments to other functions.
- Explain what a promise is and how it differs from a callback.
- Explain the difference between synchronous and asynchronous execution.
- Explain the concept of events and event driven programming.

### jQuery

- Explain when to use "vanilla" Javascript vs jQuery.
- Import Javascript libraries.
- Explain what a CDN is.
- Use jQuery to create, modify, and add responsiveness to nodes.
